Now lets do something a little more interesting
using our output and input events.
In this video we’re going to use our already
created favorite component to add some new
functionality to our application.
We’re going to add a heart icon that when
hovered over displays the book title our row
and when clicked on turns red and displays
the message ‘the favorite of the book we’ve
selected has been saved’.
Back in our editor the first thing I’m going
to do is add a new css class.
In our styles.css class I’m going to open
that up and I’m going to add a new selector
named faveSelected.
It’s going to turn our heart icon from black
to red when its clicked.
So we’ll say color red.
Save that.
Now, lets go into our favorites component.
And we’re going to leave this input reviews
here because its going to display the number
of reviews next to our icon.
I’m actually going to add one more of these.
We’ll say @Input and this is going to be
our favorite, so our favorite is going to
hold the title of our book.
We’ll change this notify and call it favoriteClicked.
So when our favorite heart icon gets clicked
this is going to send a message up into the
parent.
Now we’ll change the this.notify into our
favoriteClicked – and we’ll change this
message.
The message we’re going to send is The favorite…
and what we can do inside of string interpolation
is grab variables.
So, if we say $ then put in these curly braces,
we’re able to grab this property.
We can say this.favorite just like that, was
saved.
The one thing right here is these are apostrophies,
and instead of apostrophies we need to use
backticks, which is located at the upper left
corner of your keyboard.
So, I’m going to change those to backticks,
and then you can see that this interpolation
now has changed.
We’re going to grab the book title, which
is our favorite and display it right within
the string message.
I’m going to save that, and now lets open
up our html file.
And I’m going to add some new html here,
so we’ll get rid of that.
Lets make a new div and call this div fave.
Then inside I’m going to make an h3 tag.
This will say Add to Favorite the book that
they selected.
And here we’re going to add favicon icons.
This is going to be i.fa.fa-heart.
And its going to add our heart icon.
Then next to our heart icon I’m also going
to display our reviews.
This is going to be from the input.
We’ll add a little bit of space saying &nbsp;
and then reviews.
Inside our div class is where we’ll add
our trigger.
So, we’ll do 2 things – first we’ll
interpolate the reviews as the title, and
this is going to appear when we hover over
the heart icon.
We’re going to set it equal to the favorite.
So again, this is going to be the bookTitle.
Then we’ll also add our click trigger, so
on click we’re going to set it to the method
that we created which was onClick.
We’ll save that and now lets open up our
books-list component file.
Let’s get rid of this showMessage because
we don’t need it anymore.
And instead here I’m going to say favoriteMessage
and this is what’s going to be displayed
when the user clicks on our heart.
And this is going to be a string and for now
we’re going to set it to empty.
Lets go down a little bit.
We’ll get rid of this onNotifyClicked.
I’m going to add one more book here just
so we can see the difference when we’re
clicking on one book vs the other.
I’ll just copy this over, add a comma.
We’ll change Tom to Mike, change to war
and peace 3, and change the price.
Change this around a little bit, say book
reviews 18, and we’ll use the same image.
Lets save this for now and go ahead and edit
our html file.
We’ll change showMessage here and instead
just say favoriteMessage.
Now I’m going to cut this out and paste
it where it should be displayed.
This is going to go at the bottom of our row.
We’ll put it right below this booksInStock.
First off, remember we’re still sending
back our reviews, which is going to be displayed
in the child html, and we can send back more
then one thing.
We’re also going to be sending back into
our child the favorite.
So we’ll say favorite and we’re going
to set this equal to book.bookTitle to send
back our title of the book.
And instead of notify, we renamed this to
favoriteClicked.
Instead of onNotifyClicked we’re going to
rename this to onFavoriteClicked.
This is still going to contain an event parameter
which is the message we received from the
child.
Now lets create this onFavoriteClicked method.
I’ll put this right above our toggleImage
method.
onFavoriteClicked accepts a parameter that
we’re going to name message is of type string
and is not going to return anything.
And then we’ll just set our favoriteMessage
equal to the message.
I’m going to hit save all and lets take
a look at our application.
Our new component stuff is right here, so
if we click this we can see our message.
Favorite war and peace 2 was saved, so its
grabbing the title war and peace 2 and its
displaying the message right here.
If we click this other heart we get the message
corresponding to the appropriate book.
The last thing I want to show you is how to
change the color of this heart.
One way to do that is to use the ngClass,
which we talked about in a previous section.
There’s another way to do this which might
be simpler and that is to use the class attribute
in html and then add it to the i class right
here.
So I’ll just open up this ending div.
What we can do is say class, then the name
of the selector we want to use.
We created a new selector called faveSelected.
Then we can set it equal to a method that’s
going to be of a boolean value.
So, we’ll just say isSelected, and then
we pass in the property we want to watch for.
The property that we’ll create is called
fave.
When fave is set to true, the class faveSelected
is going to show.
When fave is set to false, this class of faveSelected
will not show.
The first thing we can do is we can create
a new property called fave and set it to false,
so we get the default coloring of our heart
icon.
I will create our new property of fave which
is a boolean and its going to be set to default
to false.
Now when we click the icon, we’re going
to set this to true.
We can say this.fave is equal to true.
And then we have to create the method for
isSelected.
We can say isSelected which takes the fave
property which is of type boolean is going
to return true or false.
So we’ll say when fave is false or this.fave
is false then return false.
But if fave is true, then return true.
And this was a mistake, this.fave we’re
not going to set it to true because then we
can reset it.
So in order to reset it we’ll flip it, just
like we did with the image.
We’ll just say this dot not fave.
This will toggle between true and false when
clicked.
Then save all.
And lets open up our app, click this button,
and now we get our heart turned red.
And when we unclick it, turns back to black.
And the same with the other one.